Welcome to my Python Challenge! 

I wanted to showcase my ability to deal with larger datasets without Excel and to further my development in programming. I had been given the initial datasets for PyBank and PyPoll, which are datasets on profit/losses and voting elections, respectively. The premise of this challenge is to come up with a script that is able to analyze the given data and produce a display of the results in the terminal and a text file. Additionally, this was great practice for me to get more comfortable using GitHub by committing often from my VS Code program and demonstrating my thought process through my code and comments. 

I will first explain the PyBank script. The topics that I wanted to be answered during my analysis were: 
1. total number of months included in the dataset
2. net total amount of profit/losses over the entire period
3. the changes in profit/losses over the entire period and the average of those changes
4. the greatest increase in profits with the date and amount
5. the greatest decrease in profits with data and amount

In order to answer these questions, I needed to build a base for my script and break down all of these topics into manageable chunks. Since I was taking data from a different source, I needed to import os and csv to ensure that they would function properly within the code. From there, I wanted to create list of both data columns because I felt as though it would be easier to refer to them later on. Additionally, I created the change list later on as I was going through my code. I needed to script to access the data document, and I needed to display the results in a text file. So, I simply connected the script to each of the files through the join function. After I opened up the file with the "with open", I made sure to set the delimiter and skipped the header of the dataset to ensure the header would not get in the way later on. From there, I used a for loop to loop through all the rows of columns 1 and 2 of the dataset to append each to their respective lists. With the lists created, I used the len function to answer the first question, which is how many months were in the dataset. While I was working on my code, I came across an issue with the profit_losses list because all of the values were strings. That is why I chose to create another variable to store the converted profit_losses list as a list of integers instead of strings. This is where I was able to compact the code a bit since the profit_losses_convert used a single line for loop instead of the standard 2 or more. I tried to keep the code as straightforward as possible, so I used the sum function to calculate the total amount of profit/losses over the entire period. That step was simple enough, but the next step took me a bit of figuring out. I know that I wanted to use a for loop to cycle through each of the values, but I had difficulty setting up the range because I would encounter an error of the index being out of range. After a good amount of googling and looking at StackOverflow, I was able to use the range and len function to help me out. Also, I had to offset the range by - 1 because I would receive an index error after the loop had finished. I calculated the change and appended the result to my change list. The average was simply the sum of the change divided by the length of the change list. I used max and min functions to find the greatest increase and decrease in the change list, and I found out which month corresponded to each by using the index in the change list to find the month in the month list. Since the change list was created using an offset of - 1, I had to consider that when finding the index of the month by adding 1 to the index value. The last part was mostly the display of the results. I prefer to use f strings because I believe they make formatting much easier to understand and are more visually appealing compared to other methods. The very last step in my code is to write the displayed results into a text file. 

Moving on to the PyPoll script, the process was more simple and straightforward compared to the PyBank one, but that could have been because I was starting to get into the groove of things. Also, the code for the PyPoll one is very similar to the PyBank one especially when it comes to setting the script up. Nonetheless, these were the topics I wanted to discover when it comes to analyzing the PyPoll dataset:
1. total number of votes cast
2. complete list of candidates who received votes
3. percentage of votes for each candidate
4. total number of votes for each candidate
5. the winner of the election due to the most votes

I started off this script the same way as I did with the PyBank. I imported the os and csv, linked the files and the script, opened the files using a reader, and set up my delimiter. I chose to skip the header in this dataset as well. I created 4 counter variables: one for the vote count and the other 3 are for each of the candidates. I also made a list to figure out the total amount of candidates, which would help me create a new list to figure out who were the different candidates. The initial for loop is to find the vote count and append all the names of the candidates into the candidate list. From there, I would use the candidate list to find all my different candidates in this election using another for loop and an if statement. As for finding the number of votes per candidate, I used another for loop with if, Elif, and else statements. The percentage was a calculation of the number of votes per candidate divided by the total amount of votes multiplied by 100. I rounded to the third decimal place to make the data display neater. With all the analysis I had done, I could clearly see that the second candidate was the winner, so I assigned that candidate the winner. The last part is the same as the PyBank where I used f strings to display my data and wrote the results inside the text file. 

This challenge was very enjoyable, and it helped with solidifying my Python knowledge thus far. Thank you for reading my README, and I hope that my code was easy to understand. 


